In the last section we set up some infrastructure for a reusable components to be able to import them
more easily.
So with a single line all the components we need at least for the common ones.
Now continue by getting set up with firebase.
But before we do let's answer that nagging question what in the world is firebase wasn't going to do
for us.
So we're going to exploit our with this amazingly simple diagram right here because what firebase really
does is amazingly simple firebase can be thought of as an online database that will connect directly
to our app.
As we develop or publish our app we can connect to this online data store and be automatically notified
of any changes to our data by other users of our application.
So whenever some amount of data changes we can decide to update our different components and present
that new information to our users.
Firebase is not only about moving data between firebase the database and our affiliate application though
it can also be used for analytics file storage or the feature that we're interested in right now authentication.
So I can talk all day about firebase but it is certainly one of those concepts where you just have to
walk through it yourself.
So let's sign up for an account and get started.
First I'll open up my browser and pop open a new tab and I can go to firebase dot Google dot com.
Now I need to assume that you've already got a Google account like you know General Gmail or just something
like that account and I assume that you have one if you do not have a Google account you'll need to
create one right now and you can do so by clicking sign up here on the top right.
In my case I've already got a Google account and I've already hooked it up with firebase.
But again if you've never hooked up with firebase and you are signed into Google there should be a link
up here that basically just says yeah I want to sign up for firebase.
That's it.
So once you sign up for firebase you'll get dumped at the firebase con..
So here's the cons. right here your counsel might look a little bit different.
You might see some more.
Next up you're on the top left.
But basically one way or the other you want to find a button that says Create new project.
And if you just created an account I believe it's going to be like right here on the left hand side.
So all we're going to do is create a new project.
That's the goal here.
So click Create new project and I've already got a project called off that I made when I was first developing
the South location.
You can call it whatever you would like.
I'm going to call my project just authentication just to have something different than off and I will
create my project
this is going to take a little bit of time for everything to get set up.
But after creating the project it will automatically take us to our project dashboard.
So the first thing I would tell you about this project dashboard is that it's set up for a lot of the
different features that are included with firebase.
So we've got working with analytics working with authentication which is what we care about database
data storage hosting Baba whois all that kind of good stuff.
The other thing I want to mention to you about using firebase specifically with re-act native all over
the place in the documentation.
You're going to see stuff that says ad firebase to cheer us up your Android app or your web app.
And of course re-act need a doesn't quite fit into any of these single categories.
We're going to be using our firebase here web app because what this ad firebase your web app can really
be read as is just add firebase to a javascript application and that is what.
Oops.
Not yet not yet.
All right that's fine.
And that's basically what we're really doing here.
We are adding firebase to a javascript application.
All right.
So one last thing we need to do here to get set up for our application on the left hand side we're going
to find that off section and click it and then immediately always get some set up here and we're going
to set up a sign and method.
So I'm going to set up a sign method and these are all the different providers that we can use with
firebase.
Now unfortunately you know you'll see Google Facebook Twitter get hub.
It would be awesome to do oh off with re-act native.
But right now unfortunately firebase does not have great support for using providers with re-act native.
So for us right now we're just going to be making use of email and password as a authentication mechanism.
So a click on an email and password.
And I know this is really small by the way but there Xoom doesn't do the greatest.
Maybe that's better.
Ok so I clicked on email and password and we are going to specifically say yes I want to enable this
please turn on email and password authentication.
So then we'll save.
And that's pretty much it.
We just enabled email and password as an authentication mechanism.
Let's now continue in the next section and get our client set up with firebase